(upbeat music)
Hi everyone, welcome to the Noticed Thing As A Fish
Breakfast Club, a little bit of bonus material
for you club fish members.
Now, if you haven't listened to part one of this,
then I would advise you to go back two weeks
and listen to that because we will reference
a few things from there in this section.
But basically, this is the New Zealand leg
of the Breakfast Club, where I am chatting the breeze
with two new co-hosts, and hopefully by the end of it,
I'll work out who was the perfect person
to share my breakfast with.
Really hope you enjoy it.
We'll be back in a couple of weeks time
with a new bit of bonus material.
I think it will probably be a drop as a line,
so we'll be back to the normal way
because we'll be back in the UK.
In the meantime, all that's left to say
is on with the bonus material.
(upbeat music)
- Okay, we're recording.
Welcome to Anna and James's Breakfast Club.
Welcome back, in fact, because this is a new phase
of the notice thing as a fish trip.
We've been in Australia.
- Yes.
- We're now in New Zealand.
- And I thought we would turn over a new leaf
for the Breakfast Club because I've had some creative
differences with my two other co-hosts,
Dad and Andy.
And yeah, it just wasn't really working out.
And the thing is, Anna, 'cause we have our other podcast.
I thought it wasn't really fair for us
to do the Breakfast Club,
even though I knew it would be best this way.
- Oh, that's why.
'Cause I thought I must have missed the mail.
I missed the post, the letter that requested my presence.
- No, there was full disclosure.
Honestly, I didn't ask you first,
but it was only because, do you remember the times
we did a review of our podcast
and said we had such great chemistry?
- Yeah.
- I thought maybe the chemistry would be too good.
No, no, you don't want to overdo it.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, get a big reaction and explosion.
- Yeah, I know.
So, and especially this early in the morning,
who needs that?
- Oh, God, I feel it already, the sparks.
Wow.
- That's why.
- Oh, that's why.
- So what we do is we review our breakfast.
- Right.
- That's ostensibly the idea.
But, like all the best formats,
but not enough like them,
that there's any plagiarism issues,
we're going to talk about the breakfast,
but really we're going to talk about
what's going on in our lives.
- Oh, it's like desert island discs.
You're going to get to the heart of me.
- It's very similar to that,
but with at least four or five different
format point differences.
- I see, I see.
- Well, I end up in tears at any point.
Is it sort of like you're going to be dredging up
some childhood trauma that I'd rather you didn't?
- We won't be doing that,
but depending on how good your omelet is.
- Tears of joy.
If it's cheesy enough, I might cry with joy.
- Okay, so first of all,
we are in New Zealand.
Have you found the tour so far?
We've been here for, what, almost two weeks?
- Yeah.
You know what, it's been surprisingly good fun.
- Oh, it's been absolutely charming to spend time
with my three best friends.
- Oh, that's so nice.
- Oh, you talked about people who you met in Melbourne.
- Yeah, just these lads in a bar the other night.
They were really fond of this.
- No, it's been good.
Australasia is a fun place to be, isn't it?
The audiences are, they're up for it
because they're in a far flung bit of the world
that doesn't get a lot of action a lot of the time.
And suddenly they've been descended on by,
and it's not just us, we're the headlines,
but our warm-ups were Coldplay was before us,
Stephen Fry came just before us.
- Yeah.
- Who's Eric Idle's there, isn't he?
- Eric Idle, they're getting an M-Fox.
- Yeah.
- And we're the Amusebouche,
although actually we found that we're following Stephen around
and Coldplay are following us around.
- So we're the main course?
- Yeah, oh yeah, that's a good way of looking at it.
- Coldplay the cheese course.
- Unbelievably apt.
- Yeah.
- And Stephen is someone ordering 12 starters
whether everyone else is on the ordered one.
So here's something, you know,
this will blow your mind actually.
- Do you know the book "Harry McClary from Donaldson's Dairy"
by Lindley Dodd?
- I'm very familiar with it, yeah.
- Well, Lindley Dodd is from New Zealand,
and where do you think Harry McClary lives?
- Well, he lives in Donaldson's Dairy.
- He does, that's where he's from.
- I'm a cow.
- Famously from there.
But what do you think happens in that dairy?
- Well, he gets his little paws out
and he milks those udders, those cow's udders,
for all he's worth.
- Well, would you believe it that in New Zealand,
that's not what a dairy is?
A dairy is a corner shop.
And so Harry McClary is from a corner shop.
- What?
He's just a local off-licensed dog.
- He's living off discarded crunchy wrappers.
- It makes so much sense actually,
because there's actually not that many
like big open wild country field scenes in Harry McClary
that you'd expect if you're in a dairy.
It does seem to happen in a bit of an urban area
a lot of the time.
- It happens in a little town, doesn't it?
- Yeah.
- So, yeah.
- That's huge.
That's a huge fact.
- It's quite a big fact, that.
- Yeah.
- I was told that by someone I played golf with the other day.
- Good stuff.
- We're in Auckland right now.
So how are you finding Auckland?
- Gosh, I'm not gonna lie, James.
'Cause this is going out after we've left,
so I can't get lynched.
But it's not my kind of place.
But as you know, I don't like a city.
So, which is difficult with touring,
'cause there are very few big venues
in the middle of nowhere that we can finish.
Thank you.
Oh, yum.
This looks like a good omelet.
Look at that swimming, cheesy,
saucy, creamy inside.
- The tears are coming.
- They are.
- I can feel it.
- The cheese is welling up.
So, yeah, I think you're a country kind of girl, really.
- Yeah.
- Countryside, small villages, stuff like that.
If we could go on tour and only play hamlets.
- Oh, that'd be good, wouldn't it?
- Yeah, villages on the 1,000 population.
Do you think that would be good?
- I think that would be the dream.
Yeah, on mountain sides and beside lakes.
But, I mean, the reason it's stunning,
I think the thing that often people forget
about Australia and New Zealand is that
because so few towns, cities,
the town cities that there are are very popular.
- They're humongous, aren't they?
- Yeah, they're big.
- 'Cause when we're in Perth,
here's a little bit of behind the scenes baseball.
So, whenever we go to a new town,
Andy gets his phone out
and looks at the population on Wikipedia
and says, "We all know and love Perth."
- We all know and love Perth.
- But what's the population?
- What's the population?
- And then we have a guess.
And whoever's closest wins.
And usually, our guesses are absolutely wild.
If you think by now, we would know that.
- Have a sense of it.
- A large English town is usually a few hundred thousand,
but a city is usually, you know, more hundred thousands.
- Dan helps throwing some wild guesses.
- Yes, he does.
- With a lack of any sort of context in the real world.
And then we always have a driver who takes us around places
and they always know exactly what the population is,
so they always win.
But we did it in Perth this time.
And it's kind of a middle of nowhere town
in the middle of nowhere country.
And you think it's just gonna be like a mining town and stuff.
And even when you're there, it doesn't feel massive.
It feels like a proper city,
but it doesn't feel like an enormous city.
- Yeah, what was the plot there?
- It was like 1.5 million or something.
- It's too much.
- It's more than a million, I'm sure.
We should make it the second biggest city in England,
I think, bigger than Birmingham.
- Oh yeah, definitely the second biggest city in England.
- Yeah.
- So like, you just, because no one lives anywhere else,
they all just congregate to these CBDs,
Central Business Districts.
- The CBD, it's funny isn't it?
How Australians do that?
The CBDs, they just call it the Central Business District.
There's nothing more off-putting.
Hi, we're going out in the Central Business District.
Doesn't say goodnight out to me.
And it is one of the slight problems
with touring in Australia and New Zealand,
and that's where the theatres are usually.
So they put us in a hotel which is near to it.
So we're always in hotels that are surrounded
by skyscrapers, and I mean, not to complain of course,
because we're very lucky to be here and stuff,
but we don't really get to see real Australia very much.
- No, and the fact that we're always in skyscrapery hotels
means that we can't share hotels, of course.
- That's true.
- Because I can't go in lifts, because I'm a weed.
- This is really cold, worse.
- Yeah, you have to fight people
to get into the lifts in Australia,
and it just doesn't...
- I shy away, I shy away from that, yeah.
No, I'm claustrophobic, and so it's been really entertaining.
I'm sure for our tour managers, having doubled the work,
having to find other hotels,
or sort of little bedsits to put me in.
It feels like students think that I'm in quite a lot
of the time, but when I love it, it's so much like...
- Oh, hi, Dan.
- Where the hell's this?
- Hi, I'm here.
- Sorry.
- Hello.
- Hi.
- Hi, James.
- How are you having some breakfast?
- Yeah, I am.
- We should probably keep this surreptitious
so that people don't realize
that you're a big old breakfast reviewer.
- I see, good idea.
- So maybe if you just leave us for a few minutes,
'cause otherwise they might see me and think that, 'cause...
- I'm never gonna get old INC.
- Yeah, yeah, but we're not doing any breakfast club today.
- Really, okay.
- All right, okay.
- We're just having a chat.
- Well, you let me know when you're ready
for the next recording, 'cause I am free.
- Great, okay, enjoy your breakfast, Dan.
- See you in a bit.
- Who was that?
- Oh, he's like, he's a former colleague of mine.
Anyway, it doesn't matter.
So what were we saying?
Oh yeah, we're very lucky to be in the CVDs.
- Yeah.
- But it does mean you don't see the bush too much.
- No, you don't see much of the bush, no.
- Okay, so we've been chatting about our lives
and hopefully, dear listener,
you've learned something about what it's like
being on tour with no such insufficient.
The same yellow car's just driven past twice in a row.
- Oh my god, the Truman Show.
- 'Cause it's exactly the same car
as I have at home.
- Is it?
- Yeah, the same color as well.
Yeah, it's quite funny when you and I go anywhere together
and we're not together, but we go and drive to the place
'cause we both have very colorful cars.
- Yeah, bright yellow and bright green.
- We're talking back to each other
and we look like a fruit salad.
- Yeah.
- But I'll let you know if they drive past again.
- Yeah, I do, because that's a bit suspect, isn't it?
- But what we need to do is review our breakfast.
So as the listener might have realized,
you've ordered an omelette today.
- I have, yeah.
- So, we're in the QT Auckland.
- Yeah.
- And again, it's a menu.
So there's a lot of different things on the menu
that you can have.
First of all, why did you choose the omelette?
- Well, great question.
Thank you for asking.
I'm gonna do the old politician.
I'm not gonna ask you a question immediately.
I'm gonna ask the question I want to answer,
which is that do I prefer the menu or the buffet?
And instinctively, I prefer a buffet,
of course, 'cause you can go back and forth,
back and forth, have 19 courses.
But actually, when you're on menu,
you do feel a bit less sick leaving the breakfast room
when you haven't had 19 courses.
And sometimes it puts you in a better state
to spend the rest of the day working.
- So you like being on menu.
I was wondering, maybe we should call this podcast on menu.
- Oh, that's a lovely name.
- Nice name, nice name.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Anyway, so you ordered your omelette.
- Yeah.
- And how is your omelette?
- It's really, it's very nice.
It's got some sort of cream inside.
- Is it fluffy?
- It's really fluffy.
It's just tomato, it seems to be basic tomato.
I'm dissecting now.
Tomato, bechamel, could do with more cheese,
but they always could, couldn't they?
- Yeah, cheese is the main thing about omelettes.
It's really just a way of delivering cheese
and see your face, isn't it?
- Well, I'm a big fan of egg as well.
I think I like eggs done anyway.
- That's true.
This is something I know about you,
is that you like an egg on everything.
- I do, yeah, yeah.
- Basically any meal that you get,
if an egg comes with it, that's the one you're choosing.
- I think egg on ice cream, yeah, egg on a cracker.
- Okay, so your omelette is not just omelette.
It comes with--
- It's got salad with it.
- It's got a side salad, which is, is it rocket?
- So it's, do you know, I don't know if it is rocket in here.
I think it's spinach.
I know there is, it's rocket, it's spinach, it's lettuce.
And I'm enjoying the--
- Raw greens.
- I'm enjoying feeling very smug
not having had some salad for breakfast.
- Yeah, your salad has a bit of a dressing on it as well.
- Oh yeah.
- What is it, it's--
- What is it, it's balsamic.
- Balsamic, isn't it?
- Yeah, I'm gonna say that.
- Is it helping?
- Do you know what I found out yesterday?
Is that, oh yeah, you can't have salad
without drenching it in vinegar.
Cats, I was reminded of this
because I was just thinking about tastes and umami,
which actually maybe balsamic isn't,
but cats like Asian food best.
- Do they?
- In theory they should
because there's this amazing pet food testing place
in Milton Mowbray, I think,
and I was reading a big Guardian long read
that was based there
and they test all these foods on cats
and they said they go for all the foods that are,
their favorite foods are umami and kokumi,
which is that--
- Oh yeah, the new one.
- Seventh taste, six, seven, six.
- Six, yeah.
- Which is, I think it's, I wanna say meaty.
- No, umami's meaty.
- I think kokami enhances salty stuff.
- Yeah, or--
- It enhances something, yeah.
- Anyway, it's all over Asian food.
So really we should be giving cats, cats to curry.
- Very good.
I'm a bit worried that there's a big cat food facility
in Milton Mowbray,
which I mostly associate with pork pies.
- I know.
- And the inside of a pork pie
is not a million dollars.
- It's very similar, isn't it?
There's gotta be some mixing up happening there.
- Oh my god, we've blown this shit wide open.
- They're doing some spots.
- Okay, so you're getting to the end of your omelet now.
You've got one last bite for the ASMR.
Do you want to quickly--
- Oh, I should do a little, yeah.
Yeah, I'll get my hair out of the way.
Do a little crunching.
Ready?
It's not very crunchy omelet, but.
- No.
(groans)
- What?
(laughs)
- Yeah, okay, okay.
That's enough.
- That'll do.
- Yeah, brilliant.
- What do you want to?
- That's exactly what we wanted.
So, you finish your omelet and we need to do a final score
for the breakfast at the QT in Auckland.
- Okay.
- So, I just quickly, for the listener, I've had a coffee.
My coffee was very nice.
Unlike other places where I've had to order it in,
actually there's like a filter coffee station,
so I can just help myself for as much as I want.
And I really do appreciate that in a place.
I don't like it where you have to order it,
'cause then I feel like I can only order one.
- Yeah.
- And I like to drink about 12 coffees every day.
- Sure, sure.
- So, I'm gonna give the coffee 4.5 lumps of milk out of five.
- That sounds decent.
- Yeah.
- Just 'cause there's little lumps of milk floating
on the top of this one.
- That's what you want, isn't it?
- Yeah, so what are you gonna give your?
- Well, Brett, when I just said I've had a cup of tea
as well, and beautiful crockery,
but it's not the best cup of tea I've ever had.
So, overall, 16.5 drops of balsamic vinegar
out of 20, out of 21.
- Okay.
(laughing)
- It's the Blackjack scoring system.
- Brilliant.
Okay, 16 and 17 in Blackjack is really where you have
to make a decision if you've got a twist or a thing.
- Is it?
- Yeah.
- I'm choosing a pivotal school, okay.
So, we didn't mention the other night,
speaking of coffee, we were talking about Gustav,
the first. - Third of Sweden.
- Sweden.
Well, I think I said to you,
I sort of fell in love with,
I found him a very fascinating person.
And we didn't even get around to mentioning
that he was the person, I think,
who commissioned that investigation into coffee.
- Oh, yeah.
- And that thing was published about,
I think it was about the evils of coffee.
Was it when coffee houses were becoming
really, really popular?
And it was thought to be,
I think it was thought to be trash.
It was like, further by women, quite a lot.
So, it was dragging men away.
- And it had come from the Arabic world and stuff.
So, it's very foreign.
- Oh, yeah.
So, they did this huge investigation
into why coffee was gonna ruin the world.
But anyway, I just wanted to give Gustav a shout out
because I'd recommend looking into him.
- And anyway, the punchline is that he gave two people,
one of them only drank coffee
and one of them never drank coffee,
expecting that the one who only drank coffee
would die really quickly.
But actually, not only did he outlive
the person who didn't drink coffee,
he also outlived Gustav.
- Really?
- Yeah, I think so.
- It's not very fair because Gustav
was shot in the back at my right range, wasn't he?
You can't blame him.
- By a coffee salesman.
- Yeah.
- Okay, well, thank you very much, Anna,
for your breakfast review.
- Oh, thank you.
- We will, I feel like the chemistry was a bit too much.
- The fire has lit.
Well, this place is burning down.
- But if we ever do this again, I'll be in touch.
- I look forward to your call.
I'll be, I've got my phone on all the time.
I may, I get in on it.
- And thank you, Listener,
for listening to Anna and James's Breakfast Club.
(upbeat music)
- Okay, we're recording.
- Great.
- Are you good?
- I'm feeling great.
- Cool, okay.
Well, welcome to James and Ash's Breakfast Club.
- This is a little bit of bonus material,
where I speak to our sound engineer
and the person who wrote our theme tune, Ash Gardner.
And we discuss our breakfasts.
So, hello, Ash, how are you?
- Hello, James.
I'm doing so nicely.
You can tell that's authentic,
'cause I've got food in my mouth.
We're actually eating breakfast.
- I just waited literally
until you put that mouthful of salad in your face.
This is the first test,
because you're not one of the regular
noses things of fish members,
but you're probably the fifth member of fish, really.
'Cause you've been here since the very start.
- Certainly have.
I've watched these fishes grow.
- Yeah, since we were tiny little sprats,
who didn't know what we were doing
until we became world beggastars on a tour of...
- Where people recognize you on the plane.
- I know, it's crazy. - Just by your voices.
- It's absolutely crazy.
How you enjoying the Tarsel bar?
- It's delicious.
It's very nice being around people
that understand 50% of what I'm talking about.
- You have to understand, listener,
that Ash is a real tour de force
of knowledge, of opinion, of everything.
And he gets mentioned every now and then
on the podcast, but really,
he's part of everyone's hearts
and noses things of fish.
And a lot of the things that we say
are his catchphrases that we picked up over the years.
- You used one of them last night in the...
- Did I? - Yes.
- What did I say?
- No further questions.
- So in the show, you're at the back of the theater usually,
and you are not just doing the sound,
but you're basically coordinating with the sound guys,
with the lighting guys, with the stage managers,
with everyone, and making sure that everything happens
as it's supposed to happen,
and that we can just make the show without worrying
about what's gonna go wrong, right?
- Yes, James, I'm like the translator
in between you guys and the stage crew.
- Which considering most people don't understand anything
about what you say is quite amazing
that you managed to do that.
- Those kinds of people I can speak to.
- Do you have your own sounding language?
- No, I've got all the wrong terminology.
I haven't really called the show before,
and Michael, who's our tour manager,
is very busy on flights, and hotels, and emails,
and all that stuff, so I'm covering all the stage stuff.
And yes, I tell the people, I've got no idea
what stage left or stage right is.
So we develop a language privately every time we chat
over what I'm actually talking about, what I mean.
- There's a school in Nicaragua,
which is like a deaf school, school for deaf.
And they didn't have an ASL there,
American Sound Language, or BSL, or anything.
And they came up with their own language, these kids.
And it's the only known example of a language popping up
in the last 100 years from nowhere.
And so linguists are really excited to learn about,
you know, where it's coming from,
especially as kids are doing it, so it's so natural.
But I didn't realize that you were also doing
the same thing backstage at every show that we did.
- On the regs.
(laughing)
- And have you found that there's soundies
and lighties subbing, yeah?
- Yeah, they've all known what they were doing,
and they all have a very relaxed, but can do vibe.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, it's quite pleasant.
Everybody's keen.
- What do you think of New Zealand?
'Cause you've never been here before, I don't think.
- No, I've never been here before,
and it's very nice to be somewhere
where I don't recognize all the foliage.
- Interesting, you like your trees, don't you?
- Yeah, I feel like I've traveled quite luckily,
been able to travel quite a lot,
and trees are something that are everywhere,
and you can't help but notice them.
- That's so wise.
Apart from, of course, on the Nalaba Plain in Australia,
which is named after the fact that there's no trees on it.
- Nice, I haven't been there yet.
(laughing)
- You would like it, Ash.
- No, I'd be looking at something else.
They'd be some kind of fancy lizards or something.
That lizard, the Tuatara.
- Oh, yeah, we were talking about that the other day,
weren't we?
Oh, 'cause was there a beer named after us?
- There was a beer named after it,
and there was a pub named after it
just next to the venue last night, the Opera House.
And that's a very fascinating feature.
- Oh, actually, I should say,
you should have said this in the start,
but we're in Wellington.
- Yes. - New Zealand.
- We are.
- But yeah, the Tuatara,
which has a third eye on top of its head.
- So cool for detecting where the sun is,
and stuff, so cool.
- It's absolutely amazing.
And they live on the North Island, I think,
right in the far North of New Zealand.
- They do, yes.
And they've been around for a really good, long time.
- Really? - Kind of dinosaur age.
Yes, I think it was 240 million years ago,
they were around.
- Oh, boy, that's very cool.
So when we first arrived,
the first gig that we did,
which was in Adelaide,
Andrew Contamurray came a day early
to acclimatise.
And then myself, Anna and Dan,
came the day later.
And when we arrived, slightly jet-lagged,
you and Andy had been,
you'd been partying, hadn't you?
- We certainly had been partying.
- Yeah?
- We went to St. Peter's Cathedral
and had a lovely good old fashioned knees up.
(laughing)
- Yes. - You just,
this is so random and so very on brand for you.
You found out that there was something happening
in a local church.
- Yes. - And you dragged Andy along.
And you both sat there for an hour,
listening to a bit of Bach.
- Andy didn't need to be dragged down in Australia.
There's not as many churches as there are back home.
- Yeah, it's a godless place down here.
- Just not so many, they're everywhere back home.
Over here, there's not so many.
So whenever I see them, I'm like,
ooh, that's some old stuff, I'll go in and enjoy.
And my kids think they're all Bowser's Castle.
So it's super easy to get my kids to come and join me as well.
- Yeah, but you have to take them in go-karts
and throw bananas and shells around all the time, don't you?
Okay, and what happened in the church?
- There was an organ recital of a requiem.
I forget who wrote it,
but I was trying to get into the church
and just walking around by myself, by my lonesome.
And the church was closed,
but there was a poster for a gig
happening that very night.
And I saw an organist, and I was like,
oh, an organ in there, that's worth it.
- And was it worth it? - It was worth the gandon.
Dude, it's one of the best gigs I've been to.
- What's the second best gig you've ever been to?
- Ooh, which is, that's also really tough.
I've been to some really, really sweet gigs.
Soft and Stevens at the Barbican was quite good in 2016.
- Okay, well, that's what we're gonna say that.
That was your number two, but your number one
was the requiem.
- Ah, James, it was so good.
They had someone on "Smoke Machine"
who was wafting around,
and they were hitting all the senses.
There was smells coming out of their "Smoke Machine."
- That's an incense burner.
- It was so effective, James, it was incredible.
And they also, I feel like I've been
to one of those gigs back home.
And their "Smoke Machine" smelled Australian down here.
They must've been burning some type of red gum,
some kind of a... - Some kind of a...
- All right.
- Maybe that's the smell that I'm smelling.
But there was a real Australian smell.
- How interesting.
That's really cool.
- And another great thing is, at the end of the gig,
they just walked off stage,
and they just walked right out of the venue.
- As a kid, I was forced to go to church every week.
But I reckon if my parents had said,
"James, there's some sweet gig happening
"at St. Neffleburg's Church in Dalton,"
I might have been more inclined to go.
- It's just how you view these things.
- So, we're in Wellington, as we mentioned earlier,
in the capital of New Zealand.
And the windiest capital city in the world.
It's pretty windy out there.
I've lost my hat quite a lot of times.
There's a southerly at the moment,
which means the wind is coming directly from Antarctica.
And there's no landing between us and Antarctica,
so it's pretty nippy.
But despite the cold,
what did you and Anna get up to a couple of nights ago?
- James, we went for a little swim.
Since I've been in New Zealand,
I've been wanting to see orcas.
And I don't think the swim was so much to find orcas,
'cause that's not the place that I'd like to see them.
But Anna's so cool.
She's so hardy and just up for stuff.
- Well, she's up for swimming, especially.
She likes a wild swim.
- Oh, it was great.
We were taking our outer layers of clothes off,
and there was some kids drinking under a bridge.
And they were cheering for us.
- Oh, were they? - Yeah.
- They were wondering how far you were gonna get.
- Yeah, and it was nice to do it with Anna.
There was no screaming or, you know, we just went for a swim.
There was no giddy laughing.
- Was it not unbelievably cold?
- Not so much, no.
I was swimming in Melbourne in the bay
before this tour started,
and it was definitely colder there.
I'm not sure if it's shallow or if it was in a marina.
So I'm not sure if the boats are sure.
- Oh, yeah.
- 'Cause they discharged all of their feces from there.
That's gonna warm things up.
- It was either feces or oil or something.
- It was like the temperature bombing.
- Okay, so we should talk about our breakfast,
'cause that's the whole point of this,
and we've gone quite far into this chat,
which is very typical of chats with Ash.
- Attempts.
- Yeah, we go quite far without getting anywhere
near what we're supposed to talk about.
And actually similarly to Anna yesterday in Auckland,
you have chosen, well, you've chosen the same item
from the menu.
What did you choose?
- I think I chose an omelet.
- You've chosen omelet.
How's your omelet?
- It's quite nice.
It's a little bit overcooked.
I like a slightly runny omelet.
- Have you found the breakfast on this tour so far?
Do you always come down for breakfast or?
- I think I've missed one breakfast.
- That's good.
- We've been travelling through a lot of time zones,
which have been quite confusing.
Normally when you tour in the UK,
there's no jet-like within jet-like,
within jet-like that's going on.
So we started in Adelaide,
and then we went two hours off to Perth,
and then we went three hours off to Brisbane,
and then we went one hour off to Melbourne and Sydney,
and then we're another two hours off to New Zealand.
- And the other confusing thing is that in Adelaide,
it's an extra half hour.
- It's wild.
- It's absolutely crazy.
- Do you know the half hour that they have in India?
Do you know of that?
- So India's six and a half hours off from the UK.
- Oh yeah.
- And do you know why that is?
- No.
- It's so you can use your analogue clock,
and you can just turn it 180 degrees from English time,
and you're on Indian time.
- Is that the reason?
- Yeah.
- Don't fact-check that anyone, just in case.
(laughing)
- Could be the next Perrier.
- Yeah, Ash was responsible for Dan's fact saying once,
that when you take sparkling water from America to the UK,
you have to take the bubbles out before you ship the water.
And then when you get back to the UK,
you put the bubbles back in the same bubbles.
I've always wondered where you got that from.
Did you just make it up?
Or is it something?
- No, somebody would have told me.
- Yeah.
- Well, okay, so you've made most of the breakfast.
What is your general tactic?
Let's say there's a buffet.
Are you a one-time guy, one plate, fill it up, come back?
Or are you a multiple course guy, the guy, or what?
- James, I have very little regimented plans
when I'm doing buffets.
What I normally do is I look around
and I copy somebody's meal entirely.
(laughing)
'Cause when I go over there, I'm completely overwhelmed,
and I'm like, "Oh, there's this and there's that."
So I look around at a finished plate,
and that I can digest mentally.
And then I just go, "I'm gonna rinse that."
- So when you're deciding who to copy,
are you looking at the plates and thinking,
"I like the look of that plate,"
or are you looking at the person saying,
"That's the kind of person I trust?"
- No, no, I'm just looking at the plate.
It's like when making music,
it's really difficult to imagine
whether what you're trying to do is good or not.
I need to like try it and hear it.
And then you're like, "Ah, I can tell instantly
whether that was a good idea."
Before you can, before it's there, I have a hard time.
- That's an interesting creative thing,
'cause I think it's very similar to the idea
that writers have, which is like,
it's very difficult to have a blank sheet of paper
and start from scratch.
But once you've gone through that
and written down some absolutely rubbish,
then you can start editing and start telling things
and something good.
Is it the same in music?
- For me, anyways, I think there's a lot of,
I mean, there's a lot of talented people
who work in all of these different ways of working.
But I'm definitely, I need to hear it.
- The guy, Howard Goodall, who wrote the QI theme tune,
he reckons that he just has constant music
playing in his head.
And if he ever wants to write a song,
he just can kind of turn on a tap.
And he just, whatever comes out is...
- Jim, that's very occasionally music will play in my head.
And it's normally when I'm like lying down
and trying to sleep.
And it's really occasionally I'll be like,
"Whoa, I'm listening to music that's happening."
And it's so enjoyable.
And you can kind of imagine it to go in different directions.
You can be like, "Oh, where's this instrument?"
And then suddenly it'll go off, but dude, it's so rare.
And I've never been able,
I'm not so musically knowledgeable
that I can remember and put that stuff into anything.
It's normally kind of classical music
that I'll end up generating like that.
But I think you need quite the good musical vocabulary
to be able to remember that kind of stuff.
- Can you read music?
- I cannot, no.
- So interesting how few very good musicians,
or how many very good musicians can't read music.
- James, it's...
- Like, for instance, we were with Tim mentioned
the other day and he can't read music.
- Yeah, I think, I'm not sure where it comes from,
but I think if you're reading music,
you're not really writing music.
- Yeah, because I can read music,
but I wouldn't call myself a musician in any way at all.
- I think the drive to make people want to create music
doesn't come out of learning an instrument
and through that path.
It kind of comes, I don't know, from somewhere else.
- Perhaps also people who are forced to do that as kids,
like you're forced to learn how to do music.
- You don't see music in the same way as these weirdos
who are just like coming up with stuff,
especially with electronic music.
You know, you're really writing it on how it feels
on your body through a big sound system
and that's what's inspiring you and stuff.
- Okay, so we should quickly review this breakfast,
even though, let's be honest, it's just an omelet.
But...
I've got my breakfast, which is a coffee here,
and it's a very good coffee.
I very much enjoyed it.
It's kind of middle of the road coffee,
I would say.
I'm just gonna give it, in that case,
three drumsticks out of five for my coffee.
But what kind of mark are you gonna give your omelet today?
- Three peacocks.
- Three peacocks?
- There is a stuffed peacock in a very curious position,
looking over its old shoulder, behind Hamez right now.
- Okay, very good.
So three peacocks out of five.
- Yeah.
- Very good.
And I gotta say, this has been brilliant.
She's been absolutely amazing.
And I think you've got the job.
I think this is gonna be James and Ash's breakfast club
from now on for the rest of the tour.
Unfortunately, this is the end of the tour.
- See you next time, James.
- See you in six years, next time we come to Australia.
- Can't wait.
(upbeat music)